Proofreading-OV-Runtime (#11658)
openvinotoolkit/openvino: docs/optimization_guide/dldt_deployment_optimization_common.md

# General Optimizations {#openvino_docs_deployment_optimization_guide_common}

> This article covers application-level optimization techniques such as asynchronous execution to improve data pipelining, pre-processing acceleration and so on. 

Author: ```suggestion
This article covers application-level optimization techniques, such as asynchronous execution, to improve data pipelining, pre-processing acceleration and so on. 
```

While the techniques (e.g. pre-processing) can be specific to end-user applications, the associated performance improvements are general and shall improve any target scenario -- both latency and throughput.

@anchor inputs_pre_processing
## Inputs Pre-Processing with OpenVINO

In many cases network expects a pre-processed image. It is advised to do not perform unnecessary steps in code:

> - Model Optimizer can efficiently combine the mean and normalization (scale) values into a model (for example, to the weights of the first convolution). For more details, see the [relevant Model Optimizer command-line options](../MO_DG/prepare_model/Additional_Optimizations.md).

Author: ```suggestion
- Model Optimizer can efficiently feed the mean and normalization (scale) values into a model (for example, to the weights of the first convolution). For more details, see the [relevant Model Optimizer command-line options](../MO_DG/prepare_model/Additional_Optimizations.md).
```

> - Let the OpenVINO accelerate other means of [Image Pre-processing and Conversion](../OV_Runtime_UG/preprocessing_overview.md).

Author: ```suggestion
- Let OpenVINO accelerate other means of [Image Pre-processing and Conversion](../OV_Runtime_UG/preprocessing_overview.md).
```

> - Data which already are in the _on-device_ memory can be directly input by using the [remote tensors API of the GPU Plugin](../OV_Runtime_UG//supported_plugins/GPU_RemoteTensor_API.md).

Author: ```suggestion
- Data which already are in the "on-device" memory can be input directly by using the [remote tensors API of the GPU Plugin](../OV_Runtime_UG//supported_plugins/GPU_RemoteTensor_API.md).
```

@anchor async_api
## Prefer OpenVINO Async API
The API of the inference requests offers Sync and Async execution. While the `ov::InferRequest::infer()` is inherently synchronous and executes immediately (effectively serializing the execution flow in the current application thread), the Async "splits" the `infer()` into `ov::InferRequest::start_async()` and `ov::InferRequest::wait()`. For more information, see the [API examples](../OV_Runtime_UG/ov_infer_request.md).

> A typical use-case for the `ov::InferRequest::infer()` is running a dedicated application thread per source of inputs (e.g. a camera), so that every step (frame capture, processing, results parsing and associated logic) is kept serial within the thread.

Author: ```suggestion
A typical use case for the `ov::InferRequest::infer()` is running a dedicated application thread per source of inputs (e.g. a camera), so that every step (frame capture, processing, parsing the results, and associated logic) is kept serial within the thread.
```

> In contrast, the `ov::InferRequest::start_async()` and `ov::InferRequest::wait()` allow the application to continue its activities and poll or wait for the inference completion when really needed. So one reason for using asynchronous code is _efficiency_.

Author: ```suggestion
In contrast, the `ov::InferRequest::start_async()` and `ov::InferRequest::wait()` allow the application to continue its activities and poll or wait for the inference completion when really needed. Therefore, one reason for using asynchronous code is "efficiency".
```

> > **NOTE**: Although the Synchronous API can be somewhat easier to start with, in the production code it is prefered to use the Asynchronous (callbacks-based, below) API. The reason for that is that it is the most general and scalable way to implement the flow control for any possible number of requests (and hence both latency and throughput scenarios).

Author: ```suggestion
> **NOTE**: Although the Synchronous API can be somewhat easier to start with, prefer to use the Asynchronous (callbacks-based, below) API in the production code. The reason is that it is the most general and scalable way to implement the flow control for any possible number of requests (and hence both latency and throughput scenarios).
```

> The key advantage of the Async approach is a fac that device is busy with the inference, so the application can do other things in parallel (e.g. populating inputs or scheduling other requests) rather than wait for the current inference to complete first.

Author: ```suggestion
The key advantage of the Async approach is that when a device is busy with the inference, the application can do other things in parallel (e.g. populating inputs or scheduling other requests) rather than wait for the current inference to complete first.
```

> In the example below, inference is applied to the results of the video decoding. It is possible to keep two parallel infer requests, and while the current is processed, the input frame for the next is being captured. This essentially hides the latency of capturing, so that the overall frame rate is rather determined only by the slowest part of the pipeline (decoding vs inference) and not by the sum of the stages.

Author: ```suggestion
In the example below, inference is applied to the results of the video decoding. It is possible to keep two parallel infer requests, and while the current one is processed, the input frame for the next one is being captured. This essentially hides the latency of capturing, so that the overall frame rate is rather determined only by the slowest part of the pipeline (decoding vs inference) and not by the sum of the stages.
```

Below are example-codes for the regular and async-based approaches to compare:

> -	In the regular way, the frame is captured with OpenCV and then immediately processed:<br>

Author: ```suggestion
-	Normally, the frame is captured with OpenCV and then immediately processed:<br>
```

> **NOTE**: Using the Asynchronous API is a must for [throughput-oriented scenarios](./dldt_deployment_optimization_tput.md).

### Notes on Callbacks

> Keep in mind that the Async's `ov::InferRequest::wait()` waits for the specific request only. However, running multiple inference requests in parallel provides no guarantees on the completion order. This may complicate a possible logic based on the `ov::InferRequest::wait`. The most scalable approach is using callbacks (set via the `ov::InferRequest::set_callback`) that are executed upon completion of the request. The callback functions will be used by the OpenVINO runtime to notify on the results (or errors. 

Author: ```suggestion
Keep in mind that the `ov::InferRequest::wait()` of the Async API waits for the specific request only. However, running multiple inference requests in parallel provides no guarantees on the completion order. This may complicate a possible logic based on the `ov::InferRequest::wait`. The most scalable approach is using callbacks (set via the `ov::InferRequest::set_callback`) that are executed upon completion of the request. The callback functions will be used by the OpenVINO runtime to notify you of the results (or errors). 
```

> This is more event-driven approach.

Author: ```suggestion
This is a more event-driven approach.
```

Few important points on the callbacks:

> - It is the application responsibility to ensure that any callback function is thread-safe.

Author: ```suggestion
- It is the job of the application to ensure that any callback function is thread-safe.
```

- Although executed asynchronously by a dedicated threads, the callbacks should NOT include heavy operations (e.g. I/O) and/or blocking calls. Work done by any callback should be kept to a minimum.

@anchor tensor_idiom
## The "get_tensor" Idiom

> Within the OpenVINO, each device may have different internal requirements on the memory padding, alignment, etc., for intermediate tensors. The **input/output tensors** are also accessible by the application code. 

Author: ```suggestion
Each device within OpenVINO may have different internal requirements on the memory padding, alignment, etc., for intermediate tensors. The **input/output tensors** are also accessible by the application code. 
```

> As every `ov::InferRequest` is created by the particular instance of the `ov::CompiledModel`(that is already device-specific) the requirements are respected and the requests' input/output tensors are still device-friendly.

Author: ```suggestion
As every `ov::InferRequest` is created by the particular instance of the `ov::CompiledModel`(that is already device-specific) the requirements are respected and the input/output tensors of the requests are still device-friendly.
```

To sum it up:

> * The `get_tensor` (that offers the `data()` method to get a system-memory pointer to the tensor's content), is a recommended way to populate the inference inputs (and read back the outputs) **from/to the host memory**:

Author: ```suggestion
* The `get_tensor` (that offers the `data()` method to get a system-memory pointer to the content of a tensor), is a recommended way to populate the inference inputs (and read back the outputs) **from/to the host memory**:
```

>    * For example, for the GPU device, the inputs/outputs tensors are mapped to the host (which is fast) only when the `get_tensor` is used, while for the `set_tensor` a copy into the internal GPU structures may happen.

Author: ```suggestion
   * For example, for the GPU device, the **input/output tensors** are mapped to the host (which is fast) only when the `get_tensor` is used, while for the `set_tensor` a copy into the internal GPU structures may happen.
```

> * In contrast, when the input tensors are already in the **on-device memory** (e.g. as a result of the video-decoding), prefer the `set_tensor` as a zero-copy way to proceed. For more detail, see the [GPU device Remote tensors API](../OV_Runtime_UG//supported_plugins/GPU_RemoteTensor_API.md).

Author: ```suggestion
* In contrast, when the input tensors are already in the **on-device memory** (e.g. as a result of the video-decoding), prefer the `set_tensor` as a zero-copy way to proceed. For more details, see the [GPU device Remote tensors API](../OV_Runtime_UG//supported_plugins/GPU_RemoteTensor_API.md).
```

> Please consider the [API examples](@ref in_out_tensors) for `get_tensor` and `set_tensor`.

Author: ```suggestion
Consider the [API examples](@ref in_out_tensors) for the `get_tensor` and `set_tensor`.
```
